---
title: "What is MicroInventor?"
date: 2018-02-26T13:20:31-05:00
draft: false
---

MicroInventor is intentionally written as a set of structured
"tutorials." It is designed both for teachers to plan their lessons
and for students to follow the instructions in the lessons in class, in
case they get stuck. Before using the curriculum, make sure all software
and hardware is set up by following the "Get Started" guide on the
left. We will be using the Raspberry Pi 3s as our platform for coding.
We will also update the stock `Node-RED` IoT platform installed on
`Raspberry Pi`s to the latest version.

#### What are the goals of MicroInventor?

* **The first and ultimate goal of the curriculum is to foster
computational thinking skills.** We want the students to be able to not
only understand the key concepts in computational thinking, such as
abstraction and automation, but also solve problems by practicing what
they have learned. We want the students to apply computational thinking
skills more generically in other disciplines and in real life. The
progression of computational thinking skills follows the framework being
developed in Paul Xu\'s doctoral dissertation. The instructional
activities will explicitly make connections between what the students
are doing in this class and what they could do in other disciplines.

* **The second goal of this curriculum is to introduce core concepts and
ideas in computer science.** These include software/hardware, data
type/structure, input/output, flow control, and networking. The
curriculum goes beyond programming languages and gives the students a
brief overview of interconnected computing devices used in application.
The students will learn practical skills used by professionals every day
in the industry.

* **The third goal is to prepare students for abstract thinking through
concrete and physical learning activities.** The key concept is data.
The students will learn how computers encode information in 0s and 1s,
how they store and manipulate data, and how they transmit data among
each other. To that end the course will use the programming paradigm
called data-flow. Different from agent-based languages such as NetLogo,
Scratch, and Alice, the curriculum will use physical activities to
scaffold abstract concepts, so students develop skills critical to new
fields in computer science such as data science and machine learning.

#### How are units structured?

The curriculum is project-based. The students will build and code
devices that exchange data between each other and explain how this very
idea might be powerful in solving real-world problems. The units are
designed to develop skills necessary for them to build their final
project. Each unit culminates with a \"micro-project,\" which also
serves as both an assessment and a stepping stone towards the final
project. The first micro-project focuses on coding skills, the second
focuses on building skills, and the third focuses on putting the
previous two microprojects together.

#### How are lessons structured?

In order to accommodate the needs of different classrooms, each lesson
will specify the time required, so that the teachers can have the
flexibility in structuring the lesson over different sessions/meetings.
Each lesson has instructional goals for computer science skills,
cross-discipline skills, and computational thinking skills as higher
order goals. The vocabulary and material required will also be listed.
There will be an assessment at the end of each lesson to provide
feedback to the instructors, so they can plan their lessons accordingly.

#### Tips on classroom management

The content of this curriculum is likely to be challenging for middle
school students. Therefore, we recommend at least two adult be in the
classroom to provide the students with ample support. However, while
support is important, students need also to develop skills to debug and
troubleshoot without relying on adults. We thus recommend that each
student get two opportunities to receive support from adults. Active
participation is encouraged by additional opportunities of support and
disruptive behavior is discouraged by taking away support points.

It is also vital to make sure that the students are on the same page
regardless of their progress on the previous day. Therefore, it is a
good idea to share code to the students at the beginning of a class, if
this class builds on what the students have learned previously.

A third tip on classroom management is to keep students occupied by
continuing to challenge them once they have finished a coding task in
class. One way to do this is to intentionally break their code and
introduce errors on the frequent errors list.
